<h1> About scriptmanager-galaxy_tools </h1>
XML wrappers for Scriptmanager software package


The compiled jar file ScriptManager-v0.13-dev.jar is included in the file directory. 


1. `Bam_statistics` tool generates Insert-size Histogram statistics


2. `bed2gff` tool converts a file extension from bed to gff and vice versa.


3. `gff2bed` tool converts a file extension from gff to bed.


4. `script_manager_heatmap` tool plots heatmap using scriptmanager


5. `scriptmanager_heatmap_add_label` tool adds label to the heatmap generated by scriptmanager. This tool has its own jar file.


6. `script_manager_tag_pileup` tool plots tagpileup by using scriptmanager


7. `script_manager_4color` tool plots 4colorplot by using scriptmanager


Non-scriptmanager tools (tools for tutorial purposes):

1. `Arabic2roman`, tool coded in python. This tool switches out the chromosome numbers from arabic numerals to roman numerals


2. `Sumterms`, tool coded in python. This tool sums the two colums of a txt file, creates a third column and places the sum there


<h2> Adding scriptmanager tools to Galaxy </h2>

1. clone the repository in the local_tools folder
```
cd /mnt/mountpoint/srv/galaxy/local_tools
sudo git clone https://github.com/CEGRcode/scriptmanager-galaxy_tools.git
```

2. Tell galaxy where to look for scriptmanager tools by adding the following section to `/mnt/mountpoint/srv/galaxy/config/local_tool_conf.xml` file.

```
<section id="ScriptManager" name="ScriptManager" > 

       <tool file="scriptmanager-galaxy_tools/script_manager_heatmap.xml" />
       <tool file="scriptmanager-galaxy_tools/script_manager_tag_pileup.xml" />
       <tool file="scriptmanager-galaxy_tools/scriptmanager_heatmap_add_label.xml" /> 
       <tool file="scriptmanager-galaxy_tools/script_manager_4color.xml" />
       
</section>
```

3. Restart Galaxy

    ```
    sudo systemctl restart galaxy
    ```
 
4. Solve dependencies for local Galaxy tools that have been just added through Galaxy web interface. `Admin -> Manage Dependencies`



